-- this is fairly old school work yo --

so, here's the story, as best as i can remember it. i went from working at
this game company, where i was at the core of a team building the backend
infastructure for this MMO-type thing, then i quit and started working at
an ad agency.

turns out, ad agencies don't really do much interesting stuff, so i started
getting bored and stumbled onto what looked like a particularly shiny object
at the time: building an "implicit social network" that would work to learn
about you by taking apart random structured and unstructured "postings"
(ie: text tweets, checkins on foursquare, nike+ runs, github projects, and
basically anything else it could use to infer anything about your interests),
and use those to assemble social networks of people that have common behavior
(not stated interests), and allow you to form both explicit communities (ie:
peer groups), as well as just learn from their habits over time (ie: how they 
might train to graduate to different levels at something faster than you,
at weight lifting, for instance) -- as if any of that made any sense at all.

but back to the not really doing much interesting thing part: it was pretty
boring there, and, as usual, whenever i find a new shiny object to stray-cat
on, i figured, "hey, i don't know much about how to do any of this stuff,
but why not? i mean, i don't have anything better to do, plus, in secrecy,
i actually believe something like this could be pretty amazing if done
right" (that illusion vaporized pretty fast, which is why i moved onto
shinier objects -- even setting the lack of technical competence aside).

i can't really remember how this all works, but i think, as far as i got it,
it does a lot of silly stuff, using a bunch of big open source language 
processing frameworks (lulz) and wikipedia dumps, which were used to tokenize, 
tag and develop online models that took random status updates like
"going rockclimbing with @myself this weekend!", plucked apart all the
interesting stuff to figure out that you were going rockclimbing, with
@myself (sad, really) on the weekend (ie: what->rockclimbing, who->@myself,
when->weekend), and in turn develop an interest profile from building up
aggregations of that stuff over time.

the way it did it, however, was really silly. it basically took the
plaintext sentence, broke it up into token sequences of, i think, up to
either 3 or 5 n-grams, with variations of both the actual words themselves,
as well as n-grams with part-of-speech tags interleaved in instead (as if i
knew what i was doing), then tried to do a giant lookup into what was
basically a dumb store of every single n-gram sequence the thing had ever
seen, and did a big inverse frequency calculation to see what distinct
(high-entropy) things it could find from what it had learned from other users
(and remember kids, i'm not a scientist, so i had no idea wtf i was doing,
just did whatever made sense -- though i did understand some basic bayes!).

but back to the story, basically, tag, figure out anything interesting, and if 
it saw that your token sequence had been identified previously (as being 
associated with certain types of activities, which were also learned over time,
like rockclimbing), it would ask you "hey, this is what i think you did, amirite?", 
and you could either say "yeah, you can strengthen your score on that match", 
or "no, but i'll teach you what i meant so you can learn it for the future lulz".

and that actually seemed like it was working enough to make me feel happy enough
to move onto something else, but that's another story.

and if you know anything about my kinds of stories, they don't get edited very
well, so this whole thing probably made absolutely no sense at all.

anyways, standard disclaimer:

there's a bunch of extra junk in here you probably don't need to run it,
while on the other hand, its probably missing some stuff you do
(as well as any explanation of how all this junk works,
license information that i probably stripped from a bunch of files
and any sort of sanity). so funny.